Previously...
- Friend of yours?
- Aye, Hugh Munro.
Ah!
Leave her alone!
Mary, she was assaulted and raped.
She'll be a spinster till
the end of her days.
Judith, you'll pay for your treachery.
Murtagh.
Here we all are, all supporters
of the Jacobite cause.
That makes you traitor to the crown.
Perhaps you have some concern
for this English lady's honor.
All right! I will tell
you whatever you wish.
Strike, and strike hard.
Now we shall not return unless
we bring victory back with us.
Angus!
- sync and corrections by Caio -
- Re-sync by GoldenBeard -
- www.addic7ed.com -
_
The Jacobite army
had moved steadily south
during the months since Prestonpans.
We had acquired much-needed
artillery along the way,
taken the English garrison at Carlisle,
and successfully occupied Manchester.
Despite this, the anticipated
sympathetic uprising
from the Scottish lowlands
and northern England
had so far not materialized.
We were now encamped
in northern England,
awaiting further orders
from Prince Charles.
Ah.
Your Royal Highness,
I am aware how painful
this must be for you,
but the truth is often vexing.
We must turn back.
And I say we shall not.
Now, London lies within our grasp,
and all we have to do is
reach out and take it.
John?
This is no time for silence. Speak, man.
I'm sorry, Your Royal Highness.
As you know, the Lord General and myself
are seldom of like mind,
but I fear, in this instance,
we speak with one voice.
I must say, this is a
damned inconvenient time
to be conciliatory.
And I would say the same
to you, My Lord General.
Fraser, you have proved to
possess a sound military mind,
but I will not have my decision
challenged by a junior officer.
Do I make myself clear, sir?
And what of our prince's decision?
Do we not all serve him
and his noble cause?
Our orders were to march into
England and take London.
We are but five days
from reaching that city,
and now you order us to... to turn back
and... and retreat to Scotland?
Five days, gentlemen.
A mere five days is all
what stands between us
and the completion of God's will.
It's not the five days that concerns me,
but the three British armies
that stand between us and London,
and we don't bloody know
where any of them are.
We're not likely to meet all
three at once, My Lord.
But if we are shrewd and lucky,
we might manage to slip past them all.
Aye, and if we don't,
the British number 30,000 troops,
while we have mustered a mere five.
One good fight, we'd be
too weakened to carry on.
That war brings risk should
come at no surprise.
But if we turn back now,
all hope that currently resides
in the hearts of our supporters
will be filled with doubt and fear.
Is that the one?
Good.
Ah, this won't take long.
I promise.
Ah!
Ah, oh.
Good job.
Here.
Dinna fash yourself, son.
My guid freen Angus,
he lost his front teeth when
he was no' but a wee lad.
A cow kicked 'em straight
down his throat.
Says he didna shite for a week
for fear o' being bitten.
Right, who's next?
I came here.
I sailed from France to
raise an army, this army.
It was God's will that I
do so, and since then,
His hand has ever been with us.
This precious chance of victory,
if we spurn His divine gift,
there is no guarantee
that it will be offered again.
So is there no one among you
still willing to stand by your prince,
your rightful king,
and your God?
One man.
Is that all I can count on?
It is intolerable!
I'd rather be run through
by a British bayonet
and have my body buried
in an unmarked grave
than turn back after
we have come this far!
But I see now that I am betrayed
by both friends and allies.
You do what you must,
but may God damn you to hell for it.
I have nothing more to say.
It's all right, really.
Not everyone has to get a tooth pulled.
Come on, lad. Move. Move!
What did you say to him?
Nothing that isn'a true.
Your Royal Highness.
Sir.
Sorry, Sassenach.
I must give the prince some credit.
Turns out he has a fighting man's heart,
even if his generals don't.
It's not your fault.
Even if you had talked
them into taking London,
might not have been able to hold it.
No.
But if we had marched on London,
then things would be different
to what you said happened
in your history books.
It would mean that just maybe
history could be changed,
but now...
My Laird.
My Laird, is it true?
Are we turning back?
Aye.
We're going back across the border.
Home for winter.
Are they... are the
British after us, then?
Are they close?
I canna say, Ross, but
I'll see you're safe.
I promise all of ye.
I'll see ye home to Lallybroch.
And you, Sassenach,
I'll see you safe no
matter what happens.
Here you go.
- That's it, then.
- All right, all right.
_
Hmm.
Are you all right?
Aye.
Just wanted to watch you
sleep in peace for a bit.
Hmm.
Must be as cold as ice.
Get into bed.
Hmm.
What was it that you were saying?
Ach, nothing.
There's no' much I can say waking
without it sounding daft
and foolish, Sassenach.
I can say things while you sleep.
Your dreams will ken the truth of them.
Hmm.
Read this.
"My Lord Broch Tuarach,
"you are hereby ordered
to proceed at once
"with your men to...
"...Inverness?" What's this?
Exile is what it is.
They want rid of us, of you.
O'Sullivan fears
that you have too much
influence over the prince,
and Murray, oh, he did
naught to defend you.
They want you and me gone and gone now.
Bollock-less bastards.
"Proceed in advance of the army.
Arrange winter quarters
and obtain provisions."
Well, how? With what money?
Oh, aye, I asked O'Sullivan that myself.
He just stuck his big, fat
Irish nose in the air
and said that His
Highness's loyal supporters
would of course extend credit
to his representative.
Of course.
I'll speak to the prince myself.
He's gone.
Murray spirited him away at dawn.
The prince also took your horse.
He said he knew you wouldn't mind.
In that case, Sassenach,
how long since you visited Inverness?
Hold still.
- Ah.
You big bairn.
Angus'd rip that out
with his front teeth.
He didn't have front teeth.
He'd have used his gums then.
Oh.
I wish I could give you a tetanus shot.
I'd take a shot at anything just now.
Whiskey's the best I've got.
Ah!
Burghers!
- It was over there!
- To the south!
Redcoats. Grab your arms!
Grab your arms! Scatter to the woods!
Wait!
- There's no time. Go.
- Rupert!
Rupert, you're with me! Go!
Rupert, you're with me! Come on!
Meet at the crossroads.
- Go.
- Go to the crossroads!
Go!
Show her down!
Come on, Sassenach.
I think we've lost them.
- Rupert!
- Hurry up, damn you!
Hold on.
Wait.
Faster!
Ride!
Bloody!
I'm with ye, lad. I'm with you.
Quick! Quickly!
They went this way! Come on!
Are you sure it's wise for us to stop?
If not, Claire assures
me Rupert will die.
I haven't seen any
redcoats for some time.
Wait for my signal.
Sorry, Laird.
I didna ken it was you.
It's fine.
Where are your horses?
Hidden in the woods beyond.
Wallace is standing guard.
We waited at the crossroads, but...
Aye, it's all right.
Make sure ours are hidden as well.
What happened to him?
I decided to take a closer
look at a musket ball.
Here, Fergus.
Take out the whiskey and the bowl.
Clear the altar and get him on it.
Okay.
I have to take out the bullet.
It's a miracle it hasn't
shifted into your brain.
It's a miracle they didna
shoot me in my good eye.
Damn it, where's my knife?
My lady.
Well, where'd you get that?
Milord gave it to me.
Well, give me the whiskey.
Hold still.
All right.
Up you get.
Oh, well, I suppose one
eye is better than nane.
Here, hold this.
I'll get you a black eye patch.
You'll be like a proper pirate.
Pirates have eye patches?
And peg legs and a parrot.
What in the name of the wee
man are you heaving about?
Mm, oh, never mind.
Jamie.
Blow out the candle.
What is it?
What is that?
You in the church!
We have your men and your horses!
I order you to surrender in
the name of His Majesty!
- Redcoats?
- Aye.
Oh, Christ.
Lay down your arms and come out,
or we shall fire the roof!
There's not that many of them.
We could stay and fight.
No, they could fire the
thatch in seconds.
Anyone not picked off
running out the door
will get burnt to death
when the roof caves in.
He's right.
We'll never make it.
No.
You have two minutes
to decide, gentlemen!
I'm the one with a price on my head.
Maybe I can bargain with them,
give myself up in exchange
for your freedom.
Och, stop being such a hero.
If they take ye this time,
it's a choice between the
hangman and the headsman.
Better to stand and fight.
Everyone here is
under my protection.
If I can save you all
with my surrender...
- I'll do it.
- Wait.
Perhaps there's another way.
Och.
No. There isn't, Claire,
and we don't have time to...
Help!
Save me!
Bloody hell, they've got
an Englishwoman in there.
Save me! I'm... I'm a British subject!
Stop!
Have you gone mad?
Look, say I'm your hostage.
They won't fire the
place with me inside.
Exchange me.
Use me to bargain with them.
It worked the last time.
With a lad.
These are soldiers.
No.
Never.
You in the church,
if you have an Englishwoman in there,
send her out now!
Give up our hostage?
Not likely. We'll rather...
Claire's right.
The soldiers will not hurt her.
They'll escort her to a place
of safety, then let her go.
I will not give you up!
Bring out the woman,
or we shall set fire to the thatch
and burn you out!
Yes, you will, you stubborn Scot.
I will not.
Am I not Lady Broch Tuarach?
Are these men not my responsibility too?
You'll release the Englishwoman,
surrender your horses and weapons.
And you leave with the lady.
I need your word of honor.
Agreed. Your hostage, what is her name?
Mistress Beauchamp is her name,
a widow we encountered along the way.
We took her under our protection.
Your protection?
I know the reputation
of Highlanders, sir.
I must tell you, if she has been harmed,
all agreements are void.
You're a bad liar, Sassenach.
Go out there wi' that look on your face,
they'll ken something's amiss.
Well, how am I supposed to look?
I dinna ken.
Less... guilty.
Oh, perhaps you should faint, me lady.
Mm, den they... they can't
ask you question right away.
Off you go, son.
They'll most likely take you
to the garrison in Hazelmere.
It's the nearest British
outpost in the area.
They won't want a woman
weighing 'em down
any more than is absolutely necessary,
so come on.
We'll make our way
there, fetch you back.
All right.
We need to leave.
Wait.
Now, you said it yerself.
You're a known man.
If they recognize Red Jamie,
they won't honor the bargain
they've struck, so...
He's right.
We will find each other.
Trust in that.
Come on.
Behold the Jacobite army.
That'll be enough, Lieutenant.
Is she all right?
She's fainted
from terror.
I charge you personally
with the lady's protection,
sir.
I urge you all, return to your homes!
Resume your lives as peaceful,
loyal subjects of the crown!
Oh, aye.
I'll be glad to,
as soon as the true king
is wearing that crown.
Oh.
Where am I?
You're safe, ma'am.
You're under our protection now.
That's a relief.
Have you been harmed in any way?
No.
No, I'm quite all right.
The lady says she's unharmed.
Yes, thank you, Lieutenant.
Mount up!
Thank you.
Jamie.
I'll look for a horse along the way.
You and Murtagh gather the
rest of the men. Head north.
Ye dinna need two to play shepherd.
He's right. I'm coming with you.
No.
No, you'll both help me best
by seeing the men safe.
I'll meet ye in Keswick,
once I've got Claire back.
You can order them. Ye cannot order me.
We'll go and find her together.
You'll need help getting
her out of the garrison.
If it canna be me,
Murtagh will do well enough.
Godspeed, lad.
Bring our lass back safe.
Jamie.
When you find her,
give her a wink for me, aye?
It didn't take long
to lose my sense of direction
as we rode through the night.
I knew I ought to be
leaving some sort of sign
for him to follow,
but unfortunately, I was
short of bread crumbs.
We'll stop for the night in Crich, Mrs.
Beauchamp.
The horses have gone as far as they can.
Right outside.
Mugs of beer all around,
and your lady too.
Hey, we'll need food as well.
- Here you go, ma'am.
- Thank you.
Good, aye?
Dispatch has just arrived for you, sir.
Lieutenant.
You look like you could
do with warming up.
Ma'am.
It's time to go, madam.
Where's the captain?
He received orders to
proceed to Keswick,
and he left during the night.
Don't worry.
Captain has said I was to
escort you to Bellmont
before we rejoin him.
Bellmont?
But I thought we were going
to the garrison at Hazelmere.
Fortunes of war.
Bellmont's closer and along
the road to Keswick.
I wouldn't worry.
It's a big house owned
by a rich Englishman.
He'll give you refuge, I'm sure.
Ah!
Get away there.
Lieutenant Barnes, really.
I'm shocked that a king's officer
would behave in such
an unchristian manner.
Ma'am, I thought he
meant to do you harm.
Are you all right, sir?
I apologize for the
lieutenant's beastly behavior.
Here, let me help you up.
Jamie's looking for me at Hazelmere.
I still don't understand
why we're going to Bellmont
instead of Hazelmere.
Captain's orders, ma'am,
as I said.
Very well, then.
Bellmont it is.
Attention!
Who did you say lives here?
Do I have the honor of addressing
the Duke of Sandringham?
You do, indeed.
But the honor is all mine, Lieutenant.
I do so treasure any opportunity
to aid one of the king's officers,
especially in these difficult times.
How may I be of assistance to you?
This is for you, Your
Grace, from my commander.
He requests your courtesy
in giving temporary shelter to Mrs.
Beauchamp,
an English gentlewoman
we rescued last night.
Oh!
My dear Mrs. Beauchamp,
I should be delighted to offer you
the hospitality of my humble home.
I thank you, Your Grace.
My commander will be most obliged.
Good day, ma'am.
I need a drink
and something to eat,
and so do you, from your appearance.
Rescued, did he say?
Rescued from what?
Rabid bears?
Highlanders.
Much the same thing.
Hmm.
You mentioned a drink?
I'll take the gray one.
You take the other.
So, now we're traitors,
murderers, and horse thieves.
Tell me, does it ever occur to you
that taking Claire to wife
might not ha' been the
wisest thing you ever did?
- No.
- Hmm.
It doesn't.
And then they suddenly
changed their minds
and brought me here.
You have only the one
servant, Your Grace?
Well, I do still have my valet.
But, I'm afraid,
things are a bit tight at the moment.
The cook is only here three days a week.
You've brightened my outlook
considerably by being here.
Why did you pretend not to recognize me?
It's not that I'm not grateful,
but I was afraid you'd just
blurt out my real name.
Oh, the last thing I would
do, my dear, is to blurt.
But how could I possibly
commit such a lovely woman
to the tower?
So damp.
Quite took all the curls out of my wig
the last time I was there.
But I suppose you don't have to
suffer these inconveniences,
do you?
When were you a guest
at the Tower of London?
And for what?
Only a misunderstanding,
I can assure you.
Don't suppose this misunderstanding
had something to do with your loyalties.
Quite.
Which is why the army has
virtually made a ring
around my estate.
What, more soldiers than
there are out front?
Oh, my, yes.
They think they're being
inconspicuous, but really,
with those coats?
They claim that they're
resting and resupplying
before they move on.
In fact, I'm being watched.
Every entrance of this
house is being watched.
I'm still suspected of being a Jacobite.
I assume that your dashing husband
must be intent on rescuing you
even as we speak.
It would be safe to assume so, yes.
Excellent.
Well, as I want to be rescued too,
I'm coming with you.
And that couldn't happen
if I had told the soldiers your name.
I'm sorry.
You're what?
You must know.
You've always known
that in my heart I'm a Jacobite.
I'm reasonably sure you
don't have a heart.
Now, why would Jamie rescue you?
Because I doubt that the dear lad
knows where you actually are.
How could he?
The only way that he
could know your location
is through my good offices.
Really?
Are you so sure about that?
Perhaps he's riding
through the front gates
in this very moment.
Oh, I certainly hope he
isn't, because if so,
he'll find himself in a trap.
So what do you propose?
I know a man who can get
notes past the soldiers.
In return, though,
I must have your word that
Jamie will extract me
from my present situation
and deposit me in some safe haven.
I'm confident that Jamie will
honor his wife's promise.
Fine.
But I'll need some paper and a quill.
Follow me.
Gaelic?
Do you speak that barbarous tongue?
We both know that messages
are frequently intercepted.
But if you don't trust me,
I'm certainly happy to
write it in English
and just hope that your messenger boy
doesn't get caught.
You wound me, madam.
Your messenger is not to
go anywhere near Jamie.
He is to deliver this to
a beggar named Munro,
who can be found on the road
somewhere between Crich and
the garrison at Hazelmere.
If you get this message to him,
he will find Jamie.
Claire!
Mary.
I knew I was forgetting something.
Such a happy reunion.
My lovely goddaughter has
some exciting news of her own.
She's to be married.
You're his goddaughter?
Well, she's certainly
not a blood relative.
I'm sure you two have a great
deal to say to each other.
I have some correspondence to dispatch
if you'll excuse me.
Come with me.
Mary, what are
we doing down here?
This is the only place I can speak
without feeling like
I'm being listened to
or watched.
Oh, Claire, you have to help me.
I can't marry Mr. Granger.
I just can't.
Who's Mr. Granger?
The man my godfather's promised me to.
A wealthy merchant who
wishes to attach himself
to the family of a duke,
even if it does mean
marrying soiled goods.
A loyalist, I'll wager.
Yes, I suppose so.
Of course.
Trying to play the British side
by having his goddaughter marry
a supporter of the king.
I don't care why. I just can't do it.
Calm down.
I will speak to your godfather.
But he just made a decision
that means you might not
have to marry a loyalist.
Oh, would you?
Thank you, Claire.
Thank you so very much.
Munro?
Are you Munro?
Good evening to you, sir.
Good evening.
I'm looking for a beggar called Munro.
I understand he may be on this road.
I'm not likely to be asking
the names of beggars.
But have you seen any
beggars on this road?
I passed an odd little fellow
in a slouch hat and a raggedy coat
about half a mile back.
Could have been a beggar.
Much obliged.
Hey!
You there!
Are you Munro?
Wait! Wait!
Munro!
I'm looking for...
I've been sent by the
Duke of Sandringham
to give you a letter.
Ah.
Oh.
It was written by a
lady, Claire Beauchamp,
for a James Fraser.
Customarily, I'd be given
a tip on delivery.
Mrs. Beauchamp.
Tired of Mary so soon?
Not that I blame you.
Actually, I wanted to speak with you
about your plans for her marriage.
No discussion is necessary.
The die is cast. The bargain is struck.
You'll be pleased to hear
that I've been speaking
outside to the commander,
who's agreed to withdraw the soldiers.
But I thought they were
here keeping an eye on you.
Well, they may not be very far away
or for very long,
but they will go.
I mean, I am still a duke.
Are you all right, madam?
You seem perturbed in some way.
How long has this man
been in your employ?
Well, I hired him in Paris.
You're not thinking of stealing
him away for your husband.
Danton is very loyal to me.
When did you hire him in Paris?
What an odd q...
She recognizes you!
Your Grace, I promise you
I took all precautions.
You!
You put them up to it?
Your own goddaughter?
Yes, well, that was unfortunate.
There was never any intent
that you should be killed,
Mrs. Fraser.
That was the comte's original desire,
to be sure.
Comte?
The Comte St. Germain?
Yes. Ah...
I understand that you
killed him yourself.
I'd dearly love to have the
details of that encounter.
I owed him a rather large
sum of money, you see,
and I had no immediate means of payment,
but I was horrified by the notion
of disposing of such a delightful woman.
Such a waste.
So I managed to persuade
Monsieur le Comte
that simply having you raped
was sufficient revenge for
the loss of his goods.
You should really be
very grateful to me.
You could so easily be dead by now.
And you still could be, madam,
easily.
No, you're going to regret
sending your guards away
once Jamie gets here.
I didn't send them very far away.
When I told the captain that
I was expecting Red Jamie,
he made himself a bit less conspicuous
to help lure your husband
into my trap.
Proving myself loyal to the crown
by turning over Red Jamie
and his traitorous English wife
offers a much more permanent way
of correcting misperception
of my motives
than going on the run.
You could be hanged side by side.
So romantic.
Take Mrs. Fraser to her room.
And lock her in.
Hugh.
Ho-ho.
Oh.
What the devil are you doing here?
Eh-ah-way.
Aye.
- What's that now?
- I dunno.
Says it's a letter from Claire.
- He got it from a messenger.
- Ah.
Is that supposed to be Gaelic?
At least, it's trying to be.
- What's that word?
- "Sighdran."
That's not a word.
She means soldiers.
I think she means soldiers
around the house.
The word order's all back to front.
You can give her lessons later.
"S."
She's with Sandringham?
Ah.
That man's the original bad penny.
Mm.
You know where Bellmont House is?
Ha. Ah, ah-ooh-ooh.
We go, huh?
Aye.
She's even misspelled "help."
Hugh?
- Mary!
- What are you doing?
Why are you locked in?
I don't have time to
explain everything now.
I have to get out of here
and get word to Jamie.
Take me with you.
All right, but you have to help me.
I think Jamie is on his way,
but there are soldiers
hiding in the grounds.
I'll go out through the kitchen,
you go out the front way.
There's a beggar in the garden.
A beggar?
Yes, but he's a friend.
His name is Hugh Munro.
If you find him first,
then you have to tell him to warn Jamie.
It's a trap.
He can't come anywhere near the house.
Me, go out in the night
to meet a filthy beggar?
Oh, Claire, I couldn't.
I couldn't possibly.
For God sakes! Fine.
Then stay here, but be quiet.
Good evening, my dear.
Do forgive the informality.
I wasn't expecting a guest.
Nothing worse than going to
bed on an empty stomach,
don't you agree?
Do join me.
Did you truly strike down the comte
in front of the king himself,
or was it at the king's order?
It was an accident.
I doubt that.
The Comte is a most distasteful man.
No sense of humor whatever.
Perhaps I shall have something to eat.
It's going to be a very long night.
The time will move swiftly with
such a charming companion.
One rumor was that you
cast a spell on the Comte
and that his heart just stopped.
What the devil are you doing here?
Uh... uh... I just
wanted something to eat.
Just go to bed.
Now.
Lady Broch Tuarach and I
are having a most amusing conversation.
Claire's downstairs in the kitchen.
Tell Jamie it's a trap.
Where are you going, little mouse?
Ah!
Ah, let go of me, you brute,
or I'll tell my godfather
how you grabbed me.
Stand and watch, Hugh.
My personal favorite
has you turning a broomstick
into a poisonous serpent
and commanding it to attack the comte,
sort of like a latter-day
Pharaoh and Moses...
Lady Moses, I mean.
Your Grace, I found Mademoiselle
out on the front steps.
I can't marry Mr. Granger.
I... I tried to run away,
but it was so dark, and I was so scared,
and I was afraid of the soldiers.
- And I just couldn't...
- For God sake!
Just go to bed!
Now, where was I?
Um, oh, yes, the snake story.
Well, now... good Lord.
Claire!
Throw your weapon away and back off!
This is the man who
attacked us in Paris!
Claire.
Now, now, now, now, now come on.
Le-let's all just calm down
and discuss this thing rationally
like level-headed people.
It wasn't my fault.
He made me do it.
It's true.
He arranged the attack
to pay off one of his debts to St.
Germain.
Y-y-y...
I-I-it could have been so
much worse, believe me.
You can't imagine what
the comte had in mind.
I just told Danton to terrify the women.
You know me, Jamie.
I'd never countenance such
a vulgar thing as a rape.
That's a lie.
Rape was your idea.
Aye, aye, I do know you, Your Grace.
You'll say whatever to whoever
to save your own skin.
Well, that stops today.
Now, I... I swear it.
I promise.
Aye, as you say.
Mary!
I kept my word.
I lay your vengeance at your feet.
I think we'd better go.
- sync and corrections by Caio -
- Re-sync by GoldenBeard -
- www.addic7ed.com -